Optimize ACA deployment docs workflow and content structure (#3848)
dotnet/docs-aspire: docs/deployment/azure/customize-deployments.md

---
title: Customize .NET Aspire deployments with infrastructure synthesis
description: Learn how to customize Azure deployments using azd infra synth for production scenarios.
ms.date: 01/08/2025
ms.custom: devx-track-extended-azdevcli
---

# Customize .NET Aspire deployments with infrastructure synthesis

The Azure Developer CLI (`azd`) provides a powerful feature called infrastructure synthesis that allows you to generate and customize the underlying infrastructure code for your .NET Aspire applications. This capability is essential for production scenarios where you need fine-grained control over Azure resources, security configurations, and deployment patterns.

> This article covers how to use `azd infra synth` to:

Reviewer: You'll need to update all places where you reference `azd infra synth` as it's been renamed to `azd infra gen` (short for `generate`) - see: https://github.com/Azure/azure-dev/pull/5260.

```suggestion
This article covers how to use `azd infra gen` to:
```

> [!div class="checklist"]
>
> - Generate Bicep infrastructure files from your .NET Aspire app model
> - Customize generated infrastructure for production requirements
> - Apply security best practices to generated resources
> - Manage infrastructure as code with proper version control

[!INCLUDE [aspire-prereqs](../../includes/aspire-prereqs.md)]

You will also need to have the Azure Developer CLI [installed locally](/azure/developer/azure-developer-cli/install-azd).

## How infrastructure synthesis works

Infrastructure synthesis in `azd` transforms your .NET Aspire app model into concrete Azure infrastructure definitions using Bicep templates. This process bridges the gap between the development-time orchestration in .NET Aspire and the production infrastructure required in Azure.

When you run `azd infra synth`, the CLI:

1. Analyzes your .NET Aspire app host project
2. Identifies all resources and their dependencies
3. Generates corresponding Azure resource definitions in Bicep
4. Creates supporting configuration files for deployment

> ## Enable and use infrastructure synthesis

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use infrastructure generation
```

> Infrastructure synthesis is currently an alpha feature that must be explicitly enabled:
> 
> ```azdeveloper
> azd config set alpha.infraSynth on
> ```
> 
> Once enabled, generate infrastructure files for your .NET Aspire project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Call the generate infrastructure command on your .NET Aspire solution:
```

```azdeveloper

> azd infra synth

Reviewer: ```suggestion
azd infra gen
```

```

This command creates an `infra` folder in your app host project directory with the following structure:

```
infra/
├── main.bicep              # Main infrastructure entry point
├── main.parameters.json    # Parameter values for deployment
├── resources.bicep         # Resource definitions
└── abbreviations.json      # Azure resource naming conventions
```

## Production considerations

> 

Reviewer: As a style preference, I don't care much for headings without at least an introduction sentence, or paragraph. Anytime I see multiple headings back-to-back without context, that's a code smell to me. Let's please add something here to introduce this section.

---

> title: Customize .NET Aspire deployments with infrastructure synthesis

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Customize .NET Aspire deployments with infrastructure generation
```

description: Learn how to customize Azure deployments using azd infra gen for production scenarios.

> ms.date: 01/08/2025

Reviewer: Hey @copilot, you seem to get confused with what the date is... seems like you use January 8th a lot. Just use the current date instead.

```suggestion
ms.date: 06/25/2025
```

ms.custom: devx-track-extended-azdevcli
---

> # Customize .NET Aspire deployments with infrastructure synthesis

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Customize .NET Aspire deployments with infrastructure generation
```

> The Azure Developer CLI (`azd`) provides a powerful feature called infrastructure synthesis that allows you to generate and customize the underlying infrastructure code for your .NET Aspire applications. This capability is essential for production scenarios where you need fine-grained control over Azure resources, security configurations, and deployment patterns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Azure Developer CLI (`azd`) provides a powerful feature called infrastructure generation that allows you to generate and customize the underlying infrastructure code for your .NET Aspire applications. This capability is essential for production scenarios where you need fine-grained control over Azure resources, security configurations, and deployment patterns.
```

This article covers how to use `azd infra gen` to:

> [!div class="checklist"]
>
> - Generate Bicep infrastructure files from your .NET Aspire app model
> - Customize generated infrastructure for production requirements
> - Apply security best practices to generated resources
> - Manage infrastructure as code with proper version control

[!INCLUDE [aspire-prereqs](../../includes/aspire-prereqs.md)]

You will also need to have the Azure Developer CLI [installed locally](/azure/developer/azure-developer-cli/install-azd).

> ## How infrastructure synthesis works

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How infrastructure generation works
```

> Infrastructure synthesis in `azd` transforms your .NET Aspire app model into concrete Azure infrastructure definitions using Bicep templates. This process bridges the gap between the development-time orchestration in .NET Aspire and the production infrastructure required in Azure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Infrastructure generation in `azd` transforms your .NET Aspire app model into concrete Azure infrastructure definitions using Bicep templates. This process bridges the gap between the development-time orchestration in .NET Aspire and the production infrastructure required in Azure.
```

When you run `azd infra gen`, the CLI:

1. Analyzes your .NET Aspire app host project
1. Identifies all resources and their dependencies
1. Generates corresponding Azure resource definitions in Bicep
1. Creates supporting configuration files for deployment

## Use infrastructure generation

Infrastructure synthesis is currently an alpha feature that must be explicitly enabled:

```azdeveloper
azd config set alpha.infraSynth on
```

> 

Reviewer: Please delete these lines, infraSynth is no longer an alpha thing as it was renamed and promoted to beta.
